Defining routes in Express app (#18)
pupilfirst/wd201-scripts: backend-dev-with-express/routes-in-express/README.md

# Text

> Routing is one of the most important parts of any Web framework since it defines how our application should handle all the HTTP requests by the client. And in this lesson we are about to explore, how to define routes in Node JS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Routing is an important part of a Web framework. It defines how the application should handle all the incoming HTTP requests. In this lesson we are about to explore, how to define routes in an express.js application.
```

We will work on the same express application that we've created in the **Hello world with Express.js!** lesson.

### Fundamentals of Routing
**Routing** refers to determining how an application responds to a client request to a particular endpoint, which is a URI (or path) and a specific HTTP request method (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE etc.).

The structure of route definition is:
````
app.METHOD(PATH, HANDLER)
or 
app.METHOD(path, callback [, callback ...])
````

An example route:
```js
app.get("/", function (request, response) {
  response.send('Hello World')
})
```
 Here:
 - `app` is the instance of `express`

>  - `METHOD` is nothing but **HTTP verb**, it could be GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE etc. While defining a route, we have to keep it in lowercase, like: `app.get()`, `app.post()`, `app.delete()`, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `METHOD` is nothing but a **HTTP verb**, it could be GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE etc. While defining a route, we have to keep it in lowercase, like: `app.get()`, `app.post()`, `app.delete()`, and so on.
```

```js
app.post('/todos', function (request, response) {
  console.log('Creating new TODO: ', request.body)
  // First, we have to query our database to create the new TODO with all relevant attributes coming inside the request body.
  // Then, we have to respond back with the new TODO instance:
  // response.send(todo)
})
```
In this route definition, we've used the `POST` HTTP method, as we are creating a new entry in the database. Another important point to observe, the `PATH` value of this endpoint matches with the route to *get list of all TO-DOs*, but notice the HTTP method is different there. So, whenever you are defining any routes, remember to keep the combination of `HTTP METHOD + PATH` unique, throughout the application.

4. Route to update a specific TO-DO by it's ID:
```js
app.put('/todos/:id', function (request, response) {
  console.log('We have to update a To-DO with ID: ', request.params.id)
  console.log('Here the attributes that need to be updated, are: ', request.body)
  // First, we have to query our database to update details of a TODO with a specific ID.
  // Then, we have to respond back with the updated TODO instance:
  // response.send(todo)
})
```

> So, in this lesson, we've learned to define routes in a Node.Js application. See you in the next one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, in this lesson, we've learned to define routes in a Node.js application. See you in the next one.
```
